documentation/docs/index.md, before:

---
notoc:
---

<img src="180px-Amerigo_Vespucci.jpg" style="padding-top:30px;padding-left:20px;float:right">
# Welcome to Vespucci 
Vespucci is the first [OpenStreetMap](//openstreetmap.org) editor for Android, Codename "Vespucci", continously improved and developed since 2009. It supports the full OpenStreetMap data model including lots of less known quirks and can be used, if necessary, completly offline. 

Editing is supported by  rich, extensible and searchable presets based on the JOSM system, compatible 3rd party presets can be downloaded directly to your device. Fast "on the go" surveying is easy with address prediction and [name based POI creation](markdown/tutorials/name_suggestions.md).

Vespucci has been tested and is known to work on a wide range of devices, from small phones, tablets to exotic, for example on an Amazon Fire TV Stick, and all Android versions since 2.3. It can be used in a google free environment.

#### Obtaining Vespucci:

 * from [Googles play store](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=de.blau.android) and from [amazon](http://www.amazon.com/Simon-Poole-vespucci/dp/B00P71C3AW/ref=sr_1_1?s=mobile-apps&ie=UTF8&qid=1447617332&sr=1-1&keywords=vespucci)
 * release and beta APKs from our [github repository](https://github.com/MarcusWolschon/osmeditor4android/releases)
 * recently built potentially unstable APKs from [google drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/0B9pKLmh8s1h8bFI5bGd4VnhYWkk)
 * [source code and repository on github](https://github.com/MarcusWolschon/osmeditor4android)

#### Vespucci on Social Media

 * [Follow us on Twitter](https://twitter.com/vespucci_editor)
 * [Google Group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/osmeditor4android)
 * [Vespucci on OpenHub](https://www.openhub.net/p/osmeditor4android)

#### On device help

The texts in the _Introduction_ and _Editing_ sections are available on device as context sensitive help.

#### Roadmap

The Vespucci team doesn't have a formal road map, however you can see what we have considered working on and have completed for the next release here: [milestones 0.9.8](https://github.com/MarcusWolschon/osmeditor4android/issues?q=milestone%3A0.9.8).

#### Support and contact

If you have suggestions for enhancements or are experiencing a problem, please open an [issue on github](https://github.com/MarcusWolschon/osmeditor4android/issues).

If you're interested in this project, you're welcome to help improving it. We need UI designers, translators, and of course Java programmers. Join our google group or mail to Marcus@Wolschon.biz.

Commit message:

Added a link for known issues to the top doc page.

documentation/docs/index.md, after:

---
notoc:
---

<img src="180px-Amerigo_Vespucci.jpg" style="padding-top:30px;padding-left:20px;float:right">
# Welcome to Vespucci 
Vespucci is the first [OpenStreetMap](//openstreetmap.org) editor for Android, Codename "Vespucci", continously improved and developed since 2009. It supports the full OpenStreetMap data model including lots of less known quirks and can be used, if necessary, completly offline. 

Editing is supported by  rich, extensible and searchable presets based on the JOSM system, compatible 3rd party presets can be downloaded directly to your device. Fast "on the go" surveying is easy with address prediction and [name based POI creation](markdown/tutorials/name_suggestions.md).

Vespucci has been tested and is known to work on a wide range of devices, from small phones, tablets to exotic, for example on an Amazon Fire TV Stick, and all Android versions since 2.3. It can be used in a google free environment.

#### Obtaining Vespucci:

 * from [Googles play store](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=de.blau.android) and from [amazon](http://www.amazon.com/Simon-Poole-vespucci/dp/B00P71C3AW/ref=sr_1_1?s=mobile-apps&ie=UTF8&qid=1447617332&sr=1-1&keywords=vespucci)
 * release and beta APKs from our [github repository](https://github.com/MarcusWolschon/osmeditor4android/releases)
 * recently built potentially unstable APKs from [google drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/0B9pKLmh8s1h8bFI5bGd4VnhYWkk)
 * [source code and repository on github](https://github.com/MarcusWolschon/osmeditor4android)

#### Vespucci on Social Media

 * [Follow us on Twitter](https://twitter.com/vespucci_editor)
 * [Google Group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/osmeditor4android)
 * [Vespucci on OpenHub](https://www.openhub.net/p/osmeditor4android)

#### On device help

The texts in the _Introduction_ and _Editing_ sections are available on device as context sensitive help.

#### Roadmap

The Vespucci team doesn't have a formal road map, however you can see what we have considered working on and have completed for the next release here: [milestones 0.9.8](https://github.com/MarcusWolschon/osmeditor4android/issues?q=milestone%3A0.9.8).

#### Support and contact

If you have suggestions for enhancements or are experiencing a problem, please open an [issue on github](https://github.com/MarcusWolschon/osmeditor4android/issues). Please check [known issues](https://github.com/MarcusWolschon/osmeditor4android/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22Known+issue%22) for the current release first.

If you're interested in this project, you're welcome to help improving it. We need UI designers, translators, and of course Java programmers. Join our google group or mail to Marcus@Wolschon.biz.
