= Frequently Asked Questions =
<wiki:toc max_depth="4" />
== 1. Introduction ==

==== What is Vespucci? ====
Vespucci is the first [http://www.openstreetmap.org/ OpenStreetMap] editor for Android.
That means: It is a light-weight, easy-to-use mapping tool on mobile Android devices.


====What is Vespucci NOT?====
 * Vespucci is not a mobile map-viewer. It does not display pre-rendered tiles (e.g. Mapnik, Osmarender ...)
 * Vespucci is not a mobile navigation solution. It does not feature any routing algorithm.
 * Vespucci is not a full replacement for JOSM or Merkaator. It strives for maximum usability on mobile devices which are limited in many regards. It is not intended to support the full feature set of some other OSM editors running on fully blown PCs.


====I am already familiar with OSM editor xyz. Why should I use Vespucci? ====
If you are mapping for OSM and already have an Android device (or planning for this) then Vespucci could help in your mapping work. Data is acquired "on site" and uploaded to the OSM server. By entering data in your mobile device "on the road" you can save time because you do not have to upload GPS tracks to your home PC and work your way again through these.
Additionally, obscure OSM data can be verified easily and quickly "on site", data which is already available in OSM is not acquired again.


====What do I need to get started with Vespucci? ====
You need:
 * An Android device (or the emulator) Release 0.9 has only been tested on Android 2.3 and later.
 * The Vespucci APK file (also available over the Android Market)
 * Some familiarity with [http://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Map_Features OSM Map features]
 * An [http://www.openstreetmap.org/user/new OSM account] 


====What is the status of Vespucci development? ==== 
The current Vespucci version is 0.9.0.


====Is Vespucci available for other mobile platforms?==== 
No. Android uses a specialized VM implementation designed for mobile device use, which is technically not a standard Java Virtual Machine. Development effort for other mobile platforms is unknown and the development team is not planning for this. (Of course you are welcome to do so ...)


====How can I obtain Vespucci? ==== 
 * You can [http://market.android.com/search?q=vespucci download it from the Android Market] (Search for "Vespucci")
 * The Vespucci APK can be downloaded from the [http://code.google.com/p/osmeditor4android Vespucci project page]


====How can I install Vespucci on my Android device? ==== 
Just download and install like any other app =)


====How can I install Vespucci on the Android emulator? ==== 
Installation of the Vespucci APK is like any other APK. 
There are plenty descriptions available (e.g. [http://openhandsetmagazine.com/2008/01/tips-how-to-install-apk-files-on-android-emulator/ 1 ], [http://www.androidfreeware.org/tutorials/how-to-install-apk-files-on-android-device-emulator 2 ], [http://www.freeware4android.com/2008/07/30/tutorial-installing-apk-files-on-android-device-emulator.html  3 ], [http://clipmarks.com/clipmark/FB4A2E39-6DA1-4EBC-BBF0-5131E1AC6128/ 4 ])


== 2. Features ==

====What can I do with the editor?====

Currently, you can 
 * Add and move nodes and ways
 * Move and rotate ways
 * Edit the tags of nodes and ways
 * Append nodes to existing ways
 * Delete existing nodes
 * Move existing nodes 
 * Edit existing relations and add new turn restrictions
 * Download area around current location from OSM server
 * Download user-specified areas from OSM server
 * Create and save GPS tracks
 * All edit functions in portrait and landscape mode


====My Android device does not have a physical keyboard. Does Vespucci support a soft keyboard? ==== 
 
Yes. Soft keyboard is available in portrait mode.


====Auto Download====
Auto download is not yet support. If you want to help us in this issue, please answer on [http://code.google.com/p/osmeditor4android/issues/detail?id=14 issue 14].


====Does Vespucci support OSM Notes?====
Yes. OpenStreetBugs is no longer supported.


====What are the limits of Vespucci?====

Vespucci is limited in the following sense:
 * No free form relation creation currently
 * No validator yet (see issue id 31)

 Remember, Android is intended to be lightweight and easy-to-use.


====Which languages are supported?====

English and German are the primary supported languages. We also have translations for a number of other languages (please see link to transifex below for the current status). These other translations may be patchy and/or incomplete as we rely on volunteered translation efforts. Any help in this area would be gratefully received. Please see [https://www.transifex.com/projects/p/vespucci/]


== 3. Usage ==

====How can I download OSM data?==== 

On startup, Vespucci requests which area to download. You can choose from the following options:
 * Current location
 * Last known location 
 * Coordinates. If you need access to specific geographic coordinates you can specify latitude/longitude.

For all download options, the additional parameter "Radius" is used. It specifies how large the downloaded area is. (In detail: Radius is half the side length of the bounding box that is used when  downloading.)   

You can alternatively dismiss the dialog, zoom and pan to the area in question and then select the "Download current view" from the transfer menu.

====How can I upload new/changed data to the OSM server?====

Choose "Upload data to  OSM server" from the transfer menu.
(With other words: Data is not automatically uploaded!)


====Which user account is used when uploading data to the OSM server?====

Vespucci will use OAuth authorization as default for new installs. On your first upload you will be directed to an OSM page that we ask you to authorize your Vespucci install. It is not necessary nor recommended to store username/password on your device (it is however possible if OAuth causes problems for whatever reasons).


====How can I zoom into an area?====

 * Use the pinch-to-zoom multi-touch gesture.
 * Use the on-screen zoom controls.
 * Use the volume buttons of your Android device.