# Vespucci 0.9.10 BETA Highlights
 
## Configurable validator
 
The internal validator has been re-factored, among many other changes there is now a check for missing keys and the check for re-surveying, introduced in 0.9.9, is now fully configurable.

The missing tag check works on the combination of the keys that should be checked and the preset for element.

Example: the default configuration checks that a "name" tag is present on a object if the matching preset contains a "name" field in the non-optional tags, optionally the check can be extended to "optional" tags.

## C-Mode

In C-Mode only objects that have warnings are displayed, making it simple to find objects with missing tags and other potential problems. Starting the property editor for an object in C-Mode will automatically apply the best match presets.

Cycling through modes by long pressing on the lock button has become impractical with the increasing number of modes and has now been replaced with a menu.

## Support for synonyms in the preset search

The preset search will now use the same list of synonyms that the iD editor does additionally to the internal preset search index. The new functionality is independent of preset translations and uses the same fuzzy matching as the index search. Additional synonyms should be added on transifex to the [iD translations](https://www.transifex.com/openstreetmap/id-editor/presets/).

Notes:

* the search will currently only find presets that are present both in iD and Vespucci, we may consider added Vespucci specific lists at a later time.
* synonyms for military terms have been removed for safety reasons.

## Miscellaneous 

* The icon for splitting a selected way is now a pair of scissors.
* Improved label rendering.
* If a PresetFilter is filtering just on one preset item, apply that automatically when creating new elements.
* Support i18n attribute in presets to indicate that a text field can have i18n suffixes

The full change log is available [here](https://github.com/MarcusWolschon/osmeditor4android/commits/master)

# Known problems

# Upgrading from previous versions

* The saved editing state file format has changed, please complete any edits before upgrading.
* For known problems with the beta build please see [our issue tracker](https://github.com/MarcusWolschon/osmeditor4android/issues)

