# Vespucci 22.1 BETA Highlights

2026-07-06

### Android 16/API 36

As per google requirements, version 22.1 targets Android 16/API 36. While in itself this didn't lead to many changes, because it no longer allows opting out of inset handling 
it did force us to replace the previous third party implementation of a github issue reporter with our own implementation.

### Android 5.0 and 5.1 EOL announcement

With next years major version 23 we will be dropping support for Android 5 and 5.1. These Android versions will be a dozen years old in 2027 and google has now dropped support for
them in many of the libraries we rely on, with other words we don't really have a choice.

### Improved authorization flow

We've replaced the previous implementation that utilized a Android WebView with "CustomTabs" that use the currently installed default browser this should allow signing in with google to work again and if you are already logged in to the site, reuse that information. [More information](https://github.com/openstreetmap/openstreetmap-website/issues/5118).
 
### Dedicated function to draw "areas"

We've added an "Add area" function to the "+" button in normal mode, this works the same as the previous "Add way" but will always close the way, even if the _Snap_ function
is disabled. See [Add area](Simple%20actions.md#add-area). While drawing a closing line is indicated that will turn red if the area would intersect itself if closed at that point.

We expect more functionality to be added to this going forward. 

### Support for detecting nearly connections for boundary ways and relations

Validation will now detect and highlight nearly connections for boundary ways and ways that are a member of a boundary relation.

### Download along way

You can now download along an OSM way, this is substantially more efficient than panning along the way to download data and in our experience leads to far less 509 errors from
the OSM API. Using this will turn off auto-prune as leaving it enabled could lead to the data you just downloaded being immediately deleted, to make it a bit easier to 
re-enable auto-prune we have separated the configuration for OSM data and tasks and moved it to the layer control modal. 

We would further recommend disabling [Pan and zoom auto download](Main%20map%20display.md#transfer) and using authenticated reads (see the API configuration)) while using this function.

A future version will support the same functionality for GPX tracks, due to time constraints it wasn't possible to include it in this release.  

Note: if you are downloading tasks (Notes, Osmose bugs etc) you will have noticed that Osmose has been very slow for a long time, we would recommend to not use this function
with Osmose support turned on.

### Update "Set position" modal

If you select a Node you can change its position with the "Set position" modal. This supports pasting in to the text fields in various formats now and swapping longitude and latitude values, see [Set position](Node%20selected.md#set-position). 

### Update tiles in view

For tile based layers we now support an [Update tiles in view](Main%20map%20display.md#layer-control) that will selectively only remove the the tiles in view and for the current zoom level from the cache.

### Additional squaring support

We've add support for squaring corners of a selected way, this works both for multiple and a single selected way node.

### Improved TLS/SSL support on pre-Android 14 devices

We now provide a full suite of root certificates for devices prior to Android 14 this allows them to access all imagery sources that "modern" devices can access, see [Wasn't it just yesterday that Android 13 was shiny and new?](https://www.openstreetmap.org/user/SimonPoole/diary/408343).

### Other behaviour changes 

- Change unjoin Way behaviour to not clone nodes
- Support long press way splitting in legacy mode
- Improve mediastore indexing

## Miscellaneous

# Upgrading from previous versions

As a general precaution you should upload any pending changes before updating, particularly if you are upgrading from any major version that doesn't immediately precede this one. 

# Known problems

* The documentation is out of date.
* For other known problems with this build please see [our issue tracker](https://github.com/MarcusWolschon/osmeditor4android/issues)
